Producer-dse4-doc-updates (#12)
datastax/cassandra-source-connector: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/faqs.adoc

= Cassandra Source Connector FAQs

If you are new to DataStax Cassandra Source Connector (CSC), please read the following FAQs.

== Introduction

=== What is DataStax CSC?

> The Alpha release of the Cassandra Source Connector (CSC) is a new, open-source product from DataStax.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Cassandra Source Connector (CSC) is a beta, open-source tool developed by DataStax.
```

> With CDC, your apps can consume data from an Apache Cassandra table and submit the updates onto a Pulsar topic.  This topic can then be consumed by external targets such as Elastic, Snowflake, and other platforms. By design, the CSC is meant to be a simple connector with a 1:1 correspondence between a Cassandra table and a single Pulsar topic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With CSC, your apps can consume data from an Apache Cassandra table and submit the updates onto a Pulsar topic.  This topic can then be consumed by external targets such as Elasticsearch&reg;, Snowflake&reg;, and other platforms. By design, the CSC is a simple connector with a 1:1 correspondence between a Cassandra table and a single Pulsar topic.
```

> With CDC, your apps can consume data from an Apache Cassandra table and submit the updates onto a Pulsar topic.  This topic can then be consumed by external targets such as Elastic, Snowflake, and other platforms. By design, the CSC is meant to be a simple connector with a 1:1 correspondence between a Cassandra table and a single Pulsar topic.

Reviewer: Write out Apache Pulsar (R) for the first use, which is here.

> With CDC, your apps can consume data from an Apache Cassandra table and submit the updates onto a Pulsar topic.  This topic can then be consumed by external targets such as Elastic, Snowflake, and other platforms. By design, the CSC is meant to be a simple connector with a 1:1 correspondence between a Cassandra table and a single Pulsar topic.

Author: I believe we should stick with CSC here, since we're talking about the CSC making the submissions with Pulsar.

The CSC is composed of two parts:

* The Cassandra Source Connector, which transmits Change Data Capture (CDC) updates from the Cassandra table to the streaming service.
* The Pulsar CSC Connector, which verifies the CSC events and stores the final data changes into a Data topic.

=== What are the system requirements for the CSC?

> The CSC requires additional resources depending on your write throughput.

Reviewer: Can we provide more information here? Perhaps an example of what resources are required at the lower end and at the higher end. I don't walk away feeling like I am any clearer on what is actually required.

Author: Let's see what we can get.  @vroyer: Can we provide any additional details?  We're really nebulous on this.

> For each Cassandra write, each Cassandra replica sends one message to your Pulsar service, and executes at least one QUORUM read on your Cassandra cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each Cassandra write, each Cassandra replica sends one message to your Pulsar service and executes at least one `QUORUM` read on your Cassandra cluster.
```

=== What components and features are provided by Cassandra Source Connector?

Cassandra Source Connector provides:

* Cassandra, Elastic, Snowflake, Kinesis, Kafka, and JDBC connectors
* A management dashboard
* A monitoring and alerting system

=== Which versions of Apache Pulsar does DataStax Cassandra Source Connector support?

> Cassandra Source Connector supports Apache Pulsar 2.7.0 and later.

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be 2.8.0 now?

Reviewer: We can also consider adding a single variable everywhere the Pulsar version number is listed.

Author: I'll have to look up how to do that with AsciiDoc, but that's a good idea.

=== What does the CSC provide that is not provided by Apache Pulsar?

> DataStax Cassandra Source Connector implements the reverse of the DataStax Cassandra Source Connector, which stores Pulsar topic updates into Cassandra.  The CSC takes data from a Cassandra table and stores that data into a Pulsar topic.  From there, the data can be published to external platforms like Snowflake, Elastic, and so on.

Reviewer: The first sentence doesn't make sense here. Should the second reference to CSC actually be `Pulsar Source Connector`?

Author: I got it figured out - the DataStax CSC is the reverse of the Pulsar Connector.  AKA the CSC is the reverse of the APC: https://downloads.datastax.com/#apc .

I've updated this to correct the issue, and provided a link to the APC so it makes more sense.

=== Is DataStax Cassandra Source Connector an open-source project?

> Yes, DataStax Cassandra Source Connector is open source under the Apache 2.0 License. See the <<gitHubRepos,repos FAQ>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yes, DataStax Cassandra Source Connector is open source under the link:https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0[Apache-2.0 license agreement].
```

=== Which Kubernetes platforms are supported by the CSC?

The CSC supports most commonly used Kubernetes platforms, including:

* Minikube
* K8d
* Kind
* Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)
* Microsoft Azure Kubernetes Service

> * Amazon Kubernetes Service (AKS), and other commonly used platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Amazon Kubernetes Service (AKS)
```

[#gitHubRepos]
=== Where is the CSC public GitHub repo?

> The source for this FAQ and related CSC documents are co-located with the Cassandra Source Connector repo code, examples, and additional documentation: access the [repo here](https://github.com/riptano/cdcrep).

Reviewer: Is this accurate? `riptano` repos aren't typically public. I think it should be linked as shown below instead.

```suggestion
The link:https://github.com/datastax/cassandra-source-connector/[Cassandra Source Connector repo] includes code, examples, and additional documentation.
```

Author: You're correct - that was an old link.

== Installation

=== Is there a prerequisite version of Java needed for the DataStax Cassandra Source Connector installation?

> The DataStax Cassandra Source Connector distribution is designed for Java 11. However, because the product releases Docker images, you do not need to install Java (8 or 11) in advance. Java 11 is bundled in the Docker image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The DataStax Cassandra Source Connector distribution is designed for Java 11. However, Java 11 is bundled in the Docker image and does not need to be installed in advance. 
```

=== How do I install Cassandra Source Connector?

> Download the tar file from the DataStax [Downloads site](https://downloads.datastax.com/#csc). Then follow the xref:install.adoc[install] instructions. The tarball contains the Cassandra Source Connector distribution's NAR file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Download the tarball file from the https://downloads.datastax.com/#csc[DataStax Downloads site]. The tarball contains the Cassandra Source Connector distribution's NAR file. For more, see xref:install.adoc[].
```

> === How many Cassandra Tables can I track?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== How many Cassandra tables can I track?
```

> As many as your system can handle.  Note that each Cassandra table CDC events must be tracked with a separate Cassandra Source Connector.

Reviewer: What is required for a system to be able to handle the tracking?

Is CDC correct here?

Author: CDC is correct - we're capturing the Cassandra table CDC events, and pushing them to Pulsar.

I'll leave a note here to ask about the system configuration.

@vroyer: Similar to the question above, what's the recommended hardware requirements?

== Tasks

=== What task can I perform in the DataStax Cassandra Source Connector Installation Console?

From the Installation Console, you can:

* Configure the CSC environment.
* View and update the CSC version and application status.

> * Retrieve the host URL and generated password to launch the CSC Admin Console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Retrieve the host URL and generated password to launch the CSC Admin Console.
```

* Set up and view Grafana graphs, which display metrics collected by the provided Prometheus Operator.
* Analyze the CSC to collect information you could provide for support functions.
* Sync the license that enables CSC software.

> * View upstream, midstream, and downstream files used by the CSC.

Reviewer: Do we have documentation to how to do this? Is this something we plan to add?

Author: I believe we should add this in - I don't see any references yet.

@vroyer: This is Open Source software talking to another open source software, what license sync is there?

=== What task can I perform in the CSC Admin Console?

From the CSC Admin Console, you can:

* Add and run Pulsar clients.
* Establish credentials for secure connections.
* Define topics that can be published for streaming apps.

> * Set up Pulsar sinks that publish topics and make them available to subscribers, such as Cassandra Tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Set up Pulsar sinks that publish topics and make them available to subscribers, such as Cassandra database tables.
```

* Control namespaces used by Pulsar.

> * Use the Admin API.

Reviewer: Are we going to add these topics?

Author: This should be on the list.  I'd like to get the software running so I can see this feature in action.

=== What is Pulsar Heartbeat?

> 

Reviewer: Is `pubsub` correct here?

== Pulsar Connector

> === What are the features provided by Cassandra Source Connector that are not supported in `pulsar-sink`?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== What are the features provided by Cassandra Source Connector that are not supported in pulsar-sink?
```

This formatting doesn't work well in headings.

Author: Agreed - this is all about `pulsar-sink`.  I've updated this to reflect that.

* Single record acknowledgement and negative acknowledgements.
* The https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/en/2.6.2/io-overview/[Pulsar IO framework] provides many features that are not possible in Kafka, and has different compression formats and auth/security features. The features are handled by Pulsar.

> === What features are missing in Cassandra Source Connector that are provided in `pulsar-sink`?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== What features are missing in Cassandra Source Connector that are provided in pulsar-sink?
```

This formatting doesn't work well in headings.

* No support for `tinyint` (`int8bit`) and `smallint` (`int16bit`).

> * The key is always a String, but you can write JSON inside of it.  This is supported by pulsar-sink, but not Pulsar IO.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The key is always a string, but you can write JSON inside of it. This is supported by pulsar-sink, but not Pulsar IO.
```

> * The “value” of a “message property” is always a String; for example, you cannot map the message property to `__ttl` or to `__timestamp`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The value of a “message property” is always a string. For example, you cannot map the message property to `__ttl` or to `__timestamp`.
```

Reviewer: Check the formatting for __ttl and __timestamp.

* Field names inside structures must be valid for Avro, even in case of JSON structures. For example, field names like `Int.field` (with dot) or `int field` (with space) are not valid.

== APIs

=== What client APIs does Cassandra Source Connector provide?

> The same as for Apache Pulsar. See https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/en/client-libraries/.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The same client APIs are available for CSC as for Apache Pulsar. See https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/en/client-libraries/[Pulsar client libraries].
```

== Next

> If you haven't already, build try the CSC for yourself to to consume data from a Cassandra table and transmit the updates onto a Pulsar topic. See the xref:install.adoc[Quick Start Guide].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you haven't already, try the CSC for yourself to consume data from a Cassandra table and transmit the updates into a Pulsar topic. See xref:install.adoc[].
```
